Added Azure.VM.MaintenanceConfig (#2184)
Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure: docs/en/rules/Azure.VM.MaintenanceConfig.md

---
severity: Important
pillar: Operational Excellence
category: Repeatable infrastructure
resource: Virtual Machine
online version: https://azure.github.io/PSRule.Rules.Azure/en/rules/Azure.VM.MaintenanceConfig/
---

# Associate a maintenance configuration

## SYNOPSIS

Use a maintenance configuration for virtual machines.

## DESCRIPTION

Virtual machines can be attached to a maintenance configuration which allows customer managed assessments and updates for machine patches within the guest operating system.

## RECOMMENDATION

> Consider associating a maintenance configuration for virtual machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider automatically managing and applying operating system updates by associating a maintenance configuration.
```

## EXAMPLES

### Configure with Azure template

To deploy virtual machines that pass this rule:

- Deploy a `Microsoft.Maintenance/configurationAssignments` sub-resource (extension resource).
- Set the `properties.maintenanceConfigurationId` property to the linked maintenance configuration resource Id.

For example:

```json
{
  "type": "Microsoft.Maintenance/configurationAssignments",
  "apiVersion": "2022-11-01-preview",
  "name": "[parameters('assignmentName')]",
  "location": "[parameters('location')]",
  "scope": "[format('Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/{0}', parameters('name'))]",
  "properties": {

>     "maintenanceConfigurationId": "[format('/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/test-rg/providers/Microsoft.Maintenance/maintenanceConfigurations/{0}', parameters('maintenanceConfigName'))]",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "maintenanceConfigurationId": "[parameters('maintenanceConfigurationId')]"
```

  },
  "dependsOn": [
    "[resourceId('Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines', parameters('name'))]"
  ]
}
```

### Configure with Bicep

To deploy virtual machines that pass this rule:

- Deploy a `Microsoft.Maintenance/configurationAssignments` sub-resource (extension resource).
- Set the `properties.maintenanceConfigurationId` property to the linked maintenance configuration resource Id.

For example:

```bicep

> resource assosciateMaintenanceConfig 'Microsoft.Maintenance/configurationAssignments@2022-11-01-preview' = {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource config 'Microsoft.Maintenance/configurationAssignments@2022-11-01-preview' = {
```

  name: assignmentName
  location: location
  scope: vm
  properties: {
    maintenanceConfigurationId: maintenanceConfigurationId
  }
}
```

## NOTES

> Not all operating systems are supported, check out the `LINKS` section for more information. Update management center doesn't support driver updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operating system updates with Update Managment center is a preview feature.
Not all regions or operating systems are supported, check out the `LINKS` section for supported regions.
Update management center doesn't support driver updates.
```

Author: @BernieWhite Minor feedback from me, for Azure VMs all regions are supported, compared to Arc-enabled servers.

`Update management center (preview) is available in all Azure public regions where compute virtual machines are available.`

https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/update-center/support-matrix?tabs=azurevm%2Cazurevm-os#supported-regions

Should we add this anyways?

Reviewer: Good point @BenjaminEngeset. We should still add the preview comment, but no comment about region limiting.

For example:

> Operating system updates with Update Managment center is a preview feature.
> Update management center doesn't support driver updates.

Author: @BernieWhite Check latest update from me now and see if you think this is suitable.

Reviewer: @BenjaminEngeset Looks good to me.
